Proposal for the OCM Address format (#268)
cs3org/OCM-API: IETF-RFC.md

  OCM API Discovery.
* __Discoverable Server__ - A server that tries to supply information in
  OCM API Discovery.
* __OCM Address__ - identifies a user or group "at" an OCM Server.
The OCM Address contains a server specific Party identifier, a host
locating the OCM Server and an optional port. The OCM Address is not a
URI as it does not have scheme and the identifier may contain reserved
characters.

        ocm-address = identifier "@" host [ ":" port]

    The identifier is an opaque, case-sensitive utf-8 string. It is 

>     separated from the host by the last "@" in the OCM Address.

Reviewer: The fact that it is the `last` @-sign is important, since it is common for example for an email-address to be the local part of the identifier, maybe we should say that explicitly, e.g.:

```
It is separated from the host by the last "@" in the OCM Address. It is possible, and common, to have multiple @-signs in a OCM-address, e.g. when an email address is the local part of the address:
  nomen.nescio@example.org@ocm.example.org
```

Author: In URIs that would be avoided by requiring @, :, / etc. to be percent-encoded

  OCM API Discovery.
* __Discoverable Server__ - A server that tries to supply information in
  OCM API Discovery.
* __OCM Address__ - identifies a user or group "at" an OCM Server.
The OCM Address contains a server specific Party identifier, a host
locating the OCM Server and an optional port. The OCM Address is not a
URI as it does not have scheme and the identifier may contain reserved
characters.

        ocm-address = identifier "@" host [ ":" port]

>     The identifier is an opaque, case-sensitive utf-8 string. It is 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The identifier is an opaque, case-sensitive UTF-8 string. It is 
```

    separated from the host by the last "@" in the OCM Address. It is
    possible to have multiple @-signs in a OCM-address, e.g. when an 
    email address is the local part of the address like 
    `nomen.nescio@example.org@ocm.example.org`.

>     host is an IP literal encapsulated within square brackets, an IPv4 

Reviewer: Maybe we should have examples of each of the formats? I think that the version with en ip address encapsulated in square brackets might break current implementations, we should test that to make sure.

Author: I guess square brackets are a prerequisite for IPv6 support, so it should be supported by all IPv6 capable implementations.
@MahdiBaghbani  Maybe it would be possible to add a testcase in ocm-test-suite?

Reviewer 3: @KrausMatthias yes, we would have a matrix for permutations of send/receive/fqdn/ip/port across multiple platforms :smile:

It's going to be huge matrix, but I think the result would give us a great insight of how OCM is being implemented for future spec discussions

Reviewer 3: Last time I worked with IPv6 in docker it wasn't great, maybe that would become a limitation in testing, I need to update myself on current status of IPv6 in docker networking

Author: Btw. I've implemented the suggested OCM Address Format in https://codeberg.org/OpenGeoMesh/OpenCloudMesh-rs/commit/488bf3a7fb802a2ffcc94d11d216934265b98219#diff-9f3595a4e934e00060a258d7c0d4d6daa7b7adcf

    address in dotted decimal form, or a registered name as described in
    [RFC3986].

        host = IP-literal / IPv4address / reg-name

    The optional port subcomponent can be used to specify a port to use

>     for discovery. Implementers SHOULD omit the port component and its 
>     ":" delimiter if its value would be the same as the default ports 
>     "443" or "80" of HTTPS or HTTP.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for making this explicit now. IMHO we should be a bit more restrictive, also following the current implementations:
```suggestion
    for discovery. If no port is specified, HTTPS on the default port
    443 MUST be assumed. If a port is specified, implementers MAY
    use HTTPS or HTTP, in order to ease designing unit tests.
```

Author: Maybe we should put that in the Discovery Process?

Reviewer 2: That's definitely an option (it was too far to edit that section from this change), though a repetition might not hurt. You could try and take this paragraph down to the Discovery and put here a forward reference - let's see how it reads.

Author: See f38d6af

Reviewer 2: OK very good. Then I'd still edit this as follows:
```suggestion
    for discovery (see Discovery Process).
```

the URL instead.
Step 5: If that results in a valid HTTP response with a valid JSON
response body within reasonable time, go to step 7.

> Step 6: If not, fail. Implementations MAY fallback to `http` instead
> `https` in testing setups and retry steps 2-5 using `http`. This SHOULD
> only be allowed as Opt-In.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Step 6: If not, fail. Implementations MAY fallback to HTTP instead
of HTTPS in testing setups and retry steps 2-5, in particular when
an optional port is given in the address.
```
I don't think we buy much in stating the Opt-in, rather the issue is this is for implementations to do in the context of testing, using custom ports as they wish.
